Controlling Flow and Converting Types
Test your Knowledge

1. What happens when you divide an int variable by 0?
Ans: Dividing an int variable by 0 causes a System.DivideByZeroException error. This is because integer division by zero is undefined.

2. What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?
Ans: Dividing a double variable by 0 does not throw an error. Instead, it results in Infinity 

3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its
range?
Ans: It will take the minimum or maximum value of the int datatype.

4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?
Ans: Post-increment: The value of y is assigned to x, and then y is incremented by 1.
Pre-increment: y is incremented by 1, and then the new value of y is assigned to x.

5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop
statement?
Ans: 
break:  Exits the loop immediately and transfers control to the statement following the loop.
continue: Skips the remaining statements in the current iteration of the loop and proceeds to the next iteration.
return: Exits the method immediately and returns control to the calling method. If the method has a return type, it must return a value.

6. What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?
Ans: Initialization, Condition and Iteration. None are required but the semi colons must still be present.

7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?
Ans: Assignment Operator and Equality operator. 
Assignment operator: Assigns the value on the right-hand side to the variable on the left-hand side.
Equality operator: Compares the values on both sides and returns true if they are equal and false otherwise.

8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;
Ans: Yes, the statement compiles. This is an infinite loop because the condition true is always true, and there is no iteration or body, so it loops indefinitely.

9. What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?
Ans: Default case. It matches any value that hasn’t been matched by previous cases.

10. What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach
statement?
Ans: An object must implement the IEnumerable interface to be enumerated over by using the foreach statement.